## First Blog Post

For my first blog post, I have been tasked with answering the question "What do you think being a data scientist is about?"
After reading through the several articles given in our reading this week, I think that being a data scientist is about utilizing statistical techniques to find answers to questions about data through the use of programming languages. These statistical techniques and programming languages will vary across multiple subjects depending on the tasks and industry that the data scientist works in, but the process mostly remains the same. The questions that the data scienstist is trying to answer usually pertain to business problems so that a business can benefit from advanced insights. However, in order to carry out this process, data scientists must hold mastery over certain knowledge areas and duties such as strong knowledge of Python, R, SAS, SQL and other programming languages, as well as subjects like linear regression, logistic regression, and probability theory. While these subjects seem similar to what a statistician might need to know, there are a few similarities and differences between the two jobs. The main differences are that the means of data collection are quite different, meaning that the amount of data for a data scientist is much larger than a statistician’s dataset, as well as data scientists compare multiple methods to create the best machine learning model, while statisticians work on a singular simple model to best fit the data. Additionally, statisticians focus on quantifying uncertainty far more than data scientists, which makes sense because that is the basis of statistics. Yet, at the end of the day, the jobs are very similar in that they are both aiming to extract knowledge from data. 
Personally, I find myself far closer to the identification of a statistician since I am not as well versed in some of the top programming languages such as Python and have not had as much practice with certain modeling techniques. However, I hope that I will move closer to feeling like a data scientist after this course since it seems like their contributions and skills are much more desired in the industry!

---
